.TH UTILITYKIT 1 "July 2026" "UtilityKit v5.10.6" "UtilityKit Tools"
.SH NAME
utility-secret_scan \- Scan a directory tree for leaked credentials. Combines a curated regex ruleset
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B utility secret_scan
[\fIoptions\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Scan a directory tree for leaked credentials. Combines a curated regex ruleset
.SH DESIGN
.PP
.IP \(bu 4
\fBRepo-aware\fP: when the target is inside a git worktree, files are
  enumerated via \fCgit ls-files --cached --others --exclude-standard\fP, so
  \fC.gitignore\fPd paths are skipped automatically. Disable with
  \fC--no-gitignore\fP.
.IP \(bu 4
\fBNon-repo mode\fP: falls back to \fCfind\fP, honouring a default block-list
  (\fC.git\fP, \fCnode_modules\fP, \fC__pycache__\fP, \fCdist\fP, \fCbuild\fP, \fC.venv\fP, \fCvenv\fP,
  \fCtarget\fP, \fC.next\fP, \fC.cache\fP, \fCcoverage\fP).
.IP \(bu 4
\fBCI-friendly\fP: exits \fC1\fP when findings exist, \fC0\fP when clean, \fC2\fP for
  argument or dependency errors.
.IP \(bu 4
\fBRedacted preview\fP: matches are printed as \fCXXXX••••••XXXX\fP — the raw
  secret is preserved only in \fC--json\fP output.
.PP
.SH DETECTORS
.PP
Rule   |   Description
\fCaws-access-key\fP        |   \fCAKIA…\fP (20 chars)
\fCaws-secret-key\fP        |   Contextual 40-char base64 blob near \fCsecret\fP/\fCaccess\fP
\fCgithub-token\fP          |   \fCghp_ / ghs_ / ghr_ / gho_ / ghu_ …\fP
\fCgithub-pat\fP            |   New-style \fCgithub_pat_…\fP PATs
\fCgithub-oauth\fP          |   \fCghs_…\fP OAuth tokens
\fCslack-token\fP           |   \fCxoxb-\fP, \fCxoxa-\fP, \fCxoxp-\fP, \fCxoxr-\fP, \fCxoxs-\fP
\fCslack-webhook\fP         |   \fChttps://hooks.slack.com/services/…\fP
\fCdiscord-webhook\fP       |   \fChttps://discord(app).com/api/webhooks/…\fP
\fCgoogle-api-key\fP        |   \fCAIza…\fP (39 chars)
\fCstripe-key\fP            |   \fCsk_/pk_/rk_ live/test …\fP
\fCjwt\fP                   |   Three base64 segments separated by dots
\fCprivate-key-block\fP     |   \fC-----BEGIN … PRIVATE KEY-----\fP blocks
\fCgeneric-hex-secret\fP    |   \fCsecret/token/password/api_key = <32+ hex>\fP
\fCgeneric-b64-secret\fP    |   \fCsecret/token/password/api_key = <40+ base64>\fP
\fCdotenv-live-value\fP     |   \fC.env*\fP files with non-placeholder assignments
\fChigh-entropy-blob\fP     |   Shannon entropy ≥ \fC--entropy-min\fP (default 4.5)
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
Flag   |   Meaning   |   Default
\fC--path P\fP           |   Add a scan target (repeatable)   |   \fC.\fP
\fC--json\fP             |   Emit findings as JSON lines      |   off
\fC--no-entropy\fP       |   Skip entropy pass                |   off
\fC--entropy-min N\fP    |   Minimum entropy threshold        |   \fC4.5\fP
\fC--entropy-len N\fP    |   Minimum blob length              |   \fC20\fP
\fC--max-bytes N\fP      |   Skip larger files                |   \fC1048576\fP
\fC--no-gitignore\fP     |   Ignore \fCgit ls-files\fP filter     |   off
\fC--include GLOB\fP     |   Whitelist glob (repeatable)      |   —
\fC--exclude GLOB\fP     |   Blacklist glob (repeatable)      |   see below
\fC--context N\fP        |   Chars of context around match    |   40
\fC--quiet\fP            |   Only print summary               |   off
\fC--no-color\fP         |   Disable ANSI                     |   off
.PP
.SH DEPENDENCIES
.PP
.IP \(bu 4
\fCgrep\fP (with \fC-P\fP PCRE preferred, falls back to \fC-E\fP)
.IP \(bu 4
\fCgit\fP (optional — enables \fC.gitignore\fP respect)
.IP \(bu 4
\fCpython3\fP (optional — enables entropy scoring)
.IP \(bu 4
\fCfind\fP for non-git enumeration
.PP
Everything else degrades gracefully.
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.EX
secret                                # scan CWD
secret ./src ./scripts
secret --json > findings.jsonl
secret --no-entropy --exclude '*/vendor/*'
secret --entropy-min 5.0 --entropy-len 32
.EE
.PP
.SH EXIT CODES
.PP
Code   |   Meaning
\fC0\fP    |   No findings
\fC1\fP    |   Findings present
\fC2\fP    |   Argument or dependency error
