.TH UTILITYKIT 1 "July 2026" "UtilityKit v5.10.6" "UtilityKit Tools"
.SH NAME
utility-cache_clean \- A beautiful, safe, cross-platform bash CLI tool that intelligently cleans stale
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B utility cache_clean
[\fIoptions\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
A beautiful, safe, cross-platform bash CLI tool that intelligently cleans stale
.SH FEATURES
.PP
.IP \(bu 4
\fBSafe by default\fP: shows a dry-run preview, lists every file that will be
  deleted, and asks for a second confirmation before any permanent deletion.
.IP \(bu 4
\fBTargeted scanning\fP: only inspects known cache directories of detected
  package managers. Never wanders into project folders or scans the whole disk.
.IP \(bu 4
\fBModular plugins\fP: 17 built-in plugins covering language-specific and
  system package managers (npm, yarn, pnpm, bun, pip, cargo, go, gem, composer,
  dotnet, conan, vcpkg, apt, pacman, dnf, brew, apk).
.IP \(bu 4
\fBCross-platform\fP: works on Linux, macOS, Git Bash for Windows, and Android
  (Termux) without root.
.IP \(bu 4
\fBPortable POSIX-ish bash\fP: no external dependencies beyond common shell tools
  (\fCdu\fP, \fCfind\fP, \fCwc\fP, \fCawk\fP, optional \fCstat\fP).
.IP \(bu 4
\fBResponsive layout\fP: switches to a compact card view on narrow/mobile
  terminals and auto-detects terminal width for the best fit.
.PP
.SH INSTALL
.PP
.EX
chmod +x _cache_clean.sh
ln -s "$PWD/_cache_clean.sh" ~/.local/bin/cacheclean
.EE
.PP
Or just run it directly from the repository directory:
.PP
.EX
./_cache_clean.sh
.EE
.PP
.SH USAGE
.PP
.EX
cacheclean                          # dry-run preview + prompt
cacheclean --yes                    # preview, then auto-delete
cacheclean --delete                 # same as --yes
cacheclean --older-than 30 --yes    # delete files older than 30 days
cacheclean --no-color --quiet       # scriptable, colorless, final summary only
cacheclean --debug                  # verbose internal tracing
cacheclean --no-fancy               # force plain ASCII symbols and borders
cacheclean --fancy                  # force emojis + colors (keeps ASCII borders on Termux)
cacheclean --help                   # show all options
.EE
.PP
The tool asks for \fBtwo confirmations\fP: a first prompt after the dry-run
preview, then a second prompt that lists every file that will be deleted.
\fC--yes\fP skips both prompts but still shows the file list.
.PP
On Termux (Android) the tool defaults to \fBASCII borders + emojis\fP because many
fonts don't render box-drawing glyphs well. Use \fC--fancy\fP to keep emojis; on
Termux it will still use ASCII borders unless you also set
\fCCACHECLEAN_FANCY_BORDERS=1\fP.
.PP
.SH WRITING A PLUGIN
.PP
A plugin is a plain bash file in \fCplugins/\fP named after the package manager it
handles (e.g., \fCgo.sh\fP). It must define five functions using the file basename as
a prefix:
.PP
.EX
go_plugin_info() {
  printf 'go|go|🐹\n'          # id|display_name|icon
}

go_detect() {
  command -v go >/dev/null 2>&1
}

go_get_cache_dirs() {
  printf '%s\n' "$HOME/go/pkg/mod/cache"
}

go_scan_cache() {
  local dir
  while IFS= read -r dir; do
    [ -z "$dir" ] && continue
    if [ ! -d "$dir" ]; then
      cc_emit_err "$dir" "directory not found"
      continue
    fi
    local total_kb
    total_kb=$(cc_du_kb "$dir")
    cc_emit_tot "$dir" "$total_kb"

    while IFS= read -r f; do
      [ -z "$f" ] && continue
      cc_emit_orphan "$dir" "$f" "stale module cache"
    done < <(cc_find_old "$dir" "$CC_OLDER_THAN")
  done < <(go_get_cache_dirs)
}

go_clean_orphans() {
  cc_clean_orphans_from_file "$1"
}
.EE
.PP
The engine provides these helper functions for all plugins:
.PP
.IP \(bu 4
\fCcc_find_old DIR DAYS\fP — files older than \fCDAYS\fP days.
.IP \(bu 4
\fCcc_find_partial DIR\fP — incomplete/empty downloads.
.IP \(bu 4
\fCcc_find_locks DIR\fP — stale lock files when \fClsof\fP is available.
.IP \(bu 4
\fCcc_du_kb DIR\fP — directory size in KiB.
.IP \(bu 4
\fCcc_file_size FILE\fP — file size in bytes.
.IP \(bu 4
\fCcc_emit_tot DIR KB\fP, \fCcc_emit_orphan DIR PATH REASON\fP, \fCcc_emit_err DIR MSG\fP.
.IP \(bu 4
\fCcc_clean_orphans_from_file SCAN_FILE\fP — generic deletion of recorded orphans.
.PP
.SH LICENSE
.PP
Public domain / MIT — use, modify, and share freely.
