.TH UTILITYKIT 1 "July 2026" "UtilityKit v5.10.6" "UtilityKit Tools"
.SH NAME
utility-ip_info \- Public + local IP report with reverse DNS, ASN, GeoIP, and WHOIS.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B utility ip_info
[\fIoptions\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Public + local IP report with reverse DNS, ASN, GeoIP, and WHOIS.
.SH SECTIONS
.PP
.IP \(bu 4
\fBLocal\fP: hostname, gateway, per-interface IPv4/IPv6/MAC.
.IP \(bu 4
\fBPublic\fP: IPv4 and (if available) IPv6.
.IP \(bu 4
\fBGeo\fP: country, region, city, coords, timezone, ISP, ASN.
.IP \(bu 4
\fBWHOIS\fP: registrar, org, netblock range, name servers, dates.
.PP
.SH DATA SOURCES
.PP
Purpose   |   URL
Public IPv4   |   ipinfo.io/ip → ifconfig.co → ifconfig.me → api.ipify.org
Public IPv6   |   ipv6.icanhazip.com → api64.ipify.org → ifconfig.co
GeoIP + ASN   |   ip-api.com (free tier, ~45 rpm)
WHOIS         |   local \fCwhois\fP binary
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
Flag   |   Meaning
\fCTARGET\fP   |   IPv4, IPv6, or hostname. Optional.
\fC--local\fP   |   Show local interfaces.
\fC--public\fP   |   Look up public IP.
\fC--whois\fP   |   Include WHOIS.
\fC--geo\fP   |   Include GeoIP + ASN (default when target given).
\fC--no-network\fP   |   Skip every HTTP call (local-only report).
\fC--timeout SEC\fP   |   HTTP timeout per request (default 5).
\fC--json\fP   |   JSON output.
\fC--no-color\fP   |   Disable ANSI.
.PP
.SH DEFAULTS
.PP
.IP \(bu 4
No target      → \fC--local --public --geo\fP
.IP \(bu 4
Target given   → \fC--geo\fP
.IP \(bu 4
\fC--no-network\fP forces local-only regardless of other flags.
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.EX
ipinfo                       # local + public + geo
ipinfo 1.1.1.1               # remote lookup
ipinfo github.com --whois
ipinfo --local --no-network
ipinfo --json > report.json
.EE
.PP
.SH DEPENDENCIES
.PP
.IP \(bu 4
\fCcurl\fP (required for any network lookup)
.IP \(bu 4
\fCwhois\fP (optional — enables the WHOIS section)
.IP \(bu 4
\fCpython3\fP (optional — cleaner JSON parsing)
.IP \(bu 4
\fCip\fP / \fCifconfig\fP / \fCroute\fP / \fCnetstat\fP (any one enables the local section)
