.TH UTILITYKIT 1 "July 2026" "UtilityKit v5.10.6" "UtilityKit Tools"
.SH NAME
utility-clipboard_history \- Persistent clipboard history with fuzzy search and pin support. Stores entries
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B utility clipboard_history
[\fIoptions\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Persistent clipboard history with fuzzy search and pin support. Stores entries
.SH FEATURES
.PP
.IP \(bu 4
Add from \fBarg\fP, \fBstdin\fP, or \fBcurrent clipboard\fP.
.IP \(bu 4
List / preview newest first with pinned markers and relative timestamps.
.IP \(bu 4
Copy any entry back to the clipboard (\fCget N\fP).
.IP \(bu 4
Pin entries so history trimming won't drop them.
.IP \(bu 4
Case-insensitive regex \fCfind\fP.
.IP \(bu 4
JSON output on \fClist\fP, \fCfind\fP, \fCshow\fP.
.IP \(bu 4
Store file is \fCchmod 600\fP — treat it like a secret.
.PP
.SH BACKENDS (AUTO-DETECTED)
.PP
Purpose   |   Order tried
Write     |   \fCwl-copy\fP → \fCxclip\fP → \fCpbcopy\fP → \fCtermux-clipboard-set\fP → \fCclip.exe\fP
Read      |   \fCwl-paste\fP → \fCxclip -o\fP → \fCpbpaste\fP → \fCtermux-clipboard-get\fP → \fCpowershell Get-Clipboard\fP
.PP
Missing dependencies degrade gracefully — read/write fall back to printing
to stdout with a warning.
.PP
.SH USAGE
.PP
.EX
clipboard add "quick note"
echo "from stdin" | clipboard add
clipboard add                       # pull current OS clipboard
clipboard list
clipboard list --json
clipboard find TODO
clipboard get 1                     # copy newest back to clipboard
clipboard get --last                # same as: get 1
clipboard show 3 --no-clip          # print without touching clipboard
clipboard pin 3
clipboard unpin 3
clipboard remove 5
clipboard clear --force
clipboard path                      # print store path
.EE
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
Flag          |   Meaning
\fC--max N\fP     |   Cap history to \fCN\fP (default 200). Pins never trimmed.
\fC--no-clip\fP   |   Skip actually writing to the OS clipboard.
\fC--json\fP      |   Machine-readable output (list, find, show).
\fC--quiet\fP     |   Suppress success/info lines.
\fC--force\fP     |   Skip confirmation on \fCclear\fP.
.PP
.SH TERMUX NOTES
.PP
Install \fCtermux-api\fP and enable clipboard permission to read/write.
Without it, \fCadd\fP/\fCget\fP still work but only via stdin/print fallback.
.PP
.SH EXIT CODES
.PP
\fC0\fP on success; \fC1\fP on missing input, out-of-range selector, or store I/O
failure.
