.TH UTILITYKIT 1 "July 2026" "UtilityKit v5.10.6" "UtilityKit Tools"
.SH NAME
utility-dns_probe \- Query DNS records across multiple resolvers and compare their answers.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B utility dns_probe
[\fIoptions\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Query DNS records across multiple resolvers and compare their answers.
.SH MODES
.PP
.IP \(bu 4
\fBStandard\fP — query each requested type once against the chosen resolver(s).
.IP \(bu 4
\fBPropagation\fP — query every default public resolver + system resolver,
  group by answer, and flag disagreements. Exits \fC1\fP if any type disagrees.
.IP \(bu 4
\fBJSON\fP — machine-readable dump of the full query matrix.
.PP
.SH BACKENDS (AUTO-DETECTED)
.PP
\fCdig\fP → \fCdrill\fP → \fChost\fP.
.PP
Install any of them:
.PP
Platform   |   Command
Debian / Ubuntu   |   \fCsudo apt install dnsutils\fP
Fedora / RHEL     |   \fCsudo dnf install bind-utils\fP
macOS             |   ships with \fCdig\fP and \fChost\fP
Termux            |   \fCpkg install dnsutils\fP
.PP
.SH DEFAULT RESOLVERS (PROPAGATION MODE)
.PP
Name         |   IP
cloudflare   |   1.1.1.1
google       |   8.8.8.8
quad9        |   9.9.9.9
opendns      |   208.67.222.222
system       |   \fC/etc/resolv.conf\fP
.PP
.SH USAGE
.PP
.EX
dns example.com
dns example.com --type A,AAAA,MX
dns example.com --resolver 1.1.1.1 --resolver 8.8.4.4 --system
dns example.com --propagation
dns example.com --json > answers.json
.EE
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
Flag   |   Meaning   |   Default
\fC--type T[,T,...]\fP    |   Record types. \fCANY\fP expands to defaults.   |   \fCA,AAAA,MX,TXT,NS,CAA,SOA\fP
\fC--resolver HOST\fP     |   Query HOST (IP or hostname). Repeatable.   |   cloudflare
\fC--system\fP            |   Include system resolver.                   |   off
\fC--propagation\fP       |   Compare all default resolvers.             |   off
\fC--timeout SEC\fP       |   Per-query timeout.                         |   3
\fC--tries N\fP           |   Retry count per query.                     |   2
\fC--json\fP              |   JSON output.                               |   off
\fC--no-color\fP          |   Disable ANSI.                              |   off
.PP
.SH EXIT CODES
.PP
.IP \(bu 4
\fC0\fP success (or propagation consensus).
.IP \(bu 4
\fC1\fP propagation disagreement.
.IP \(bu 4
\fC2\fP argument or dependency error.
